“Neurology Diagnosis System” is a web-based expert system for diagnosis of neurologic disorders or the disorders of our nervous system. Health assistants in remote areas can use the system to diagnose neurologic patients in the absence of neurologists. They do not need to be neurology expert to diagnose common neurologic disorders if trained to use this expert system. The project is of immense importance to provide medical care facilities to rural people. The importance is felt because medical experts are not readily available in local hospitals and rural areas. These medical care requirements can be fulfilled to a large extent by the use of expert system. This claim is made based upon the results that the system shows and also upon the feedbacks received from various doctors and experts who observed the system.

Concerning the methodology, the basic principle is to encode the knowledge of the neurology domain in the form of rules and representative cases and use this knowledge to solve new cases of patients. This knowledge encoding is essentially the implementation of two artificial reasoning techniques called case-based reasoning and rule-based reasoning and is ultimately used to assist the diagnosis process. Since the software uses artificial reasoning techniques it is an artificial intelligence project that exploits theoretical knowledge in the form of rules and practical experiences in the form of representative cases. To perform the reasoning, input to be provided is the clinical examination data along with medical history. The result of performing rule-base reasoning is a list of probable diseases and the output of case-based reasoning is a list of cases similar to the one being diagnosed. Important of the two is the case-based reasoning component that is like a learning machine that keeps learning as new cases are inserted. The web-based hybrid expert system was built using the Java programming language by implementing the Spring Web MVC framework with MySQL as the database system.

For more details: http://ireasoning.sourceforge.net/